document feature link in flash (#499)
MicroEJ/docs: VEEPortingGuide/multiSandbox.rst

.. _KF API Module: https://repository.microej.com/modules/ej/api/kf/

.. _feature_memory_installation:

Feature Installation
====================

> Feature installation is the process of linking a ``.fo`` file in memory.

Reviewer: I would start with a description of the Feature content with a diagram.
Try to reuse standard types of data:
- Code
- RO Data (instead of resource)
- RW Data (java statics)

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20573510/215202919-a6c4418f-6b98-487f-8a5e-a77abb13b527.png)

I would use the term "linking" only for the "apply relocations to code" step. 
I would say something like:
Feature installation is triggered by a call to the [Kernel.install(InputStream)](https://repository.microej.com/javadoc/microej_5.x/apis/ej/kf/Kernel.html#install-java.io.InputStream-) method. It consists of the following steps:
- loading Feature's content from .fo file
- linking Feature's code
- storing Feature's content into the target memory

Author: done for the intro

It is triggered by a call to the `Kernel.install(InputStream)`_ method. It consists of:

> - transfer the Feature content (code and resources) to target memory location,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- transfer the Feature content (code and resources) to the target memory location,
```

> - apply relocations to code (e.g. resolving final addresses to instructions such as method call, static field access, ...).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- apply relocations to code (e.g., resolving final addresses in instructions such as method call, static field access, ...).
```

The ``LLKERNEL_impl.h`` Abstraction Layer interface provides Low Level APIs for allocating and transferring Feature content in different memory areas.

> There are 2 kinds of installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two kinds of installation:
```

- In-place Installation: The Feature content is allocated in RAM.
- Custom Installation: The Feature content is copied to any byte-addressable memory, including ROM.

Both installation modes require a certain amount of RAM:

- code relocations are allocated in the Java heap,
- the rest is allocated in a memory area called the Kernel Working Buffer (see below).

In-Place Installation
---------------------

> This is the fastest way to go with Feature installation, since it only requires to connect a ``malloc/free`` implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the fastest way to go with Feature installation since it only requires connecting a ``malloc/free`` implementation.
```

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-inplace-overview.png
   :alt: In-Place Feature Installation Steps
   :align: center
   :scale: 70%

   In-Place Feature Installation Steps

> In-Place Feature installation only applies in RAM: the whole Feature content (code and resources) is allocated in the Kernel Working Buffer. 

Author: ```suggestion
In-Place Feature installation requires relocations to be applied in RAM: the whole Feature content (code and resources) is allocated in the Kernel Working Buffer. 
```

> In-Place Feature installation only applies in RAM: the whole Feature content (code and resources) is allocated in the Kernel Working Buffer. 

Author: paragraph updated TBD

> When the Core Engine or the device restarts the Kernel Working Buffer is reset, thus there is no persistent Feature. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Core Engine or the device restarts, the Kernel Working Buffer is reset; thus there is no persistent Feature. 
```

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-inplace-memories.png
   :alt: In-Place Feature Installation Memory Map
   :align: center

>    :scale: 70%

Reviewer: I would do a diagram like this one:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20573510/215203133-e5a1356a-d484-4634-b3da-cd4acf0ddda3.png)
Kernel Code and Core Engine could be added too.
Could be merged with "In-Place Feature Installation Steps" diagram?

   In-Place Feature Installation Memory Map

The In-Place installation flow is described in the following sequence diagram:

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-inplace-installation-flow.png
   :alt: In-Place Feature Installation Flow
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%

   In-Place Feature Installation Flow

The In-Place uninstallation flow is described in the following sequence diagram:

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-inplace-uninstallation-flow.png
   :alt: In-Place Feature Uninstallation Flow
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%

   In-Place Feature Uninstallation Flow

Custom Installation
-------------------

Custom Feature Installation allows to install a Feature in any byte-addressable memory. 

> The Abstraction Layer implementation is responsible to provide:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Abstraction Layer implementation is responsible for providing the following elements:
```

- the address location where the Feature will be installed,

> - the implementation to copy chunk of bytes to the target location.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the implementation to copy a chunk of bytes to the target location.
```

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-custom-overview.png
   :alt: Custome Feature Installation Steps
   :align: center

>    :scale: 70%

Reviewer: Proposed draft diagram:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/20573510/215203492-7e38d72f-fe70-4d64-832d-959d4e5f8936.png)

   Custom Feature Installation Steps

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-custom-memories.png
   :alt: Custom Feature Installation Memory Map
   :align: center
   :scale: 70%

   Custom Feature Installation Memory Map

The custom installation flow is described in the following sequence diagram:

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-custom-installation-flow.png
   :alt: Custom Feature Installation Flow
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%

   Custom Feature Installation Flow

The custom uninstallation flow is described in the following sequence diagram:

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-custom-uninstallation-flow.png
   :alt: Custom Feature Uninstallation Flow
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%

   Custom Feature Uninstallation Flow   

Feature Persistency
-------------------

> If the Abstraction Layer implementation installs it in a Read-Only memory, the Abstraction Layer implementation can so that the Feature will be available after the Core Engine or the device restarts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the Abstraction Layer implementation installs a Feature in a Read-Only memory, it will be available after the Core Engine or the device restarts.
```

.. figure:: images/multisandbox-link-boot-flow.png
   :alt: Feature Installation Boot Flow
   :align: center
   :scale: 100%

   Feature Installation Boot Flow

Advanced Options
----------------

InputStream Buffer Size
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Feature ``.fo`` InputStream is read in a temporary byte array allocated in the Java Heap. 
The buffer size can be configured with the following option:

**Option Name**: ``com.microej.runtime.kf.link.transferbuffer.size``

**Default Value**: ``512`` (bytes)

Relocation Process Yield
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When a Feature file has a large amount of code, it may appear that the Core Engine blocks while applying relocations during the Feature installation.
The number of relocations to apply in batch can be configured with the following option:
 
**Option Name**: ``com.microej.runtime.kf.link.chunk.relocations.count``

**Default Value**: ``128``

> Once the Core Engine has processed the given number of relocations, it yields the execution to other threads than the one that is calling the `Kernel.install(InputStream)`_ method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Core Engine has processed the given number of relocations, the thread that called the `Kernel.install(InputStream)`_ method yields the execution to other threads.
```

> A small number will give more smooth execution for threads but a slowest installation execution. A large number will make the Core Engine blocking for applying relocations for a faster installation execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A small number will give more smooth execution for threads but a slowest installation execution. A large number will make the Core Engine block for applying relocations but a faster installation execution.
```
